Add EIP: ERC-20Spendable (#7492)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7777.md

---

> eip: 7777

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 7492
```
Assigning EIP number as PR number.  Please also rename the filename.

Author: Ah, so that's how I work out the eip number, thank you!

title: ERC20Spendable
description: An extension of the ERC20 standard, allowing ERC20 token transfers to trigger contract events and receive returned values.
author: Omnus Sunmo (@omnus)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-pending-erc20spendable/
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-08-17
requires: 20
---

## Abstract

> An extension of ERC20 that allows user's to initiate a transfer of tokens that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An extension of ERC-20 that allows user's to initiate a transfer of tokens that:
```

Author: Ooh, great catch, thank you! I forgot the hyphen was back in....

1. Transfers the tokens.
2. Calls a hook in the receiver passing arguments.
3. Receives returned arguments.

This allows contract interations that are currently performed with the approve -> pull pattern to be executed with a single EOA method call.

## Motivation

> Any ERC20 interaction beyond a simple transfer requires the user to authorise a contract to their token then make a call on this contract. This has two main disadvantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any ERC-20 interaction beyond a simple transfer requires the user to authorise a contract to their token then make a call on this contract. This has two main disadvantages:
```

> 1. The holder of the ERC20 token must make two contract calls for a single operation. This increases friction and gas cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The holder of the ERC-20 token must make two contract calls for a single operation. This increases friction and gas cost.
```

2. The holder gives permission to transfer tokens (in some cases for all of their holding), to another address. This has obvious security implications, and is the root cause of many stolen tokens.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Definitions

> - ERC20Spendable: A ERC20 implementing the ERC20Spendable standard. This ERC20 gains the _spend_ method, where the caller specifies the recipient, amount to transfer and any arguments encoded into bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ERC20Spendable: A ERC-20 implementing the ERC20Spendable standard. This ERC-20 gains the _spend_ method, where the caller specifies the recipient, amount to transfer and any arguments encoded into bytes.
```
